2 Passion Blog Possibilities
I am “deciding” between two very different topics to focus my passion blog on. On one end of the spectrum stands the presence of classical music in modern society. As a lover and performer of classical music, I always find it interesting to explore outlets where it still exists even in today’s pop culturally oriented society. Whether it be analyzing the melodies of more modern compositions, or heading to Philadelphia to see a traditional Baroque chamber group perform, classical music still exists for those who are willing to look for it, and I believe a blog about classical music’s current existence could possibly make that search a bit less of a burden. On the other end of the spectrum stand Penn State’s favorite little furry friends- squirrels. Squirrels are my absolute favorite animal and have been ever since I was a small child. I did not have very many opportunities for squirrel sightings in my home town, and the transition from a squirrel-less area to a practical squirrel sanctuary is both exciting and overwhelming. If I chose to write about squirrels, I would most likely focus on squirrel related stories in current news and general squirrel facts… I would also attempt to disprove the popular belief that squirrels are a burden on society, and gush over their fluffy tails. Do I sound like a weirdo yet? I’ll stop typing now.


A Squirrel Story
“What’s your favorite color?”

Rainbow?

“What’s your favorite food?”

Um… either cheese, or chocolate, or maybe ice cream. I don’t know!

“Who’s your favorite celebrity?”

I can’t even name any celebrities.

“What’s your favorite animal?”

SQUIRRELS.

There aren’t many things I am sure about, but one of them happens to be that I adore squirrels. Why? Now that area becomes a bit clouded. It may be their uber fluffy tails, or possibly the way they spastically dart into the streets, making their secret death wishes known to all drivers. But when it comes down to it, they’re just funny, adorable little creatures, and their overlooked presence is something that few have come to appreciate. So to help spread the cheer produced by these fluffy rodents, I am creating this blog for all to read. But before I get too carried away here, I’d like to take this opportunity to introduce the crazy person behind the squirrel blog—yours truly.

I grew up in a rural region of Eastern Pennsylvania, not too far from the city of Allentown. One would think that where a rural area exists, squirrels must also be present. However, this unfortunately is just not the case. With this being said, my love for squirrels was not something I possessed from birth. Instead, I filled my childhood years learning to play both the violin and piano, cultivating my cupcake baking skills, and picking petty fights with my older brother (shout out to John Veiszlemlein, who is also a student here at Penn State). It was not until around the age of seven or eight that I began creating a bond with the Pennsylvania squirrel population. You see, my grandparents used to babysit my brother and I every day. We would spend countless hours at their house, a small townhouse on the outskirts of a tiny town called Bath, Pennsylvania. My grandparents had a closed-in glass porch that looked out onto a grassy, green lawn. Two crab apple trees grew on either side of the path leading to the porch, and countless bird feeders were scattered among the property. It was a very serene image to take in, accompanied by the sound of the neighbor’s lawn mower and my grandmother’s polka CD quietly playing in the background. Moments at my grandparents’ house would all be very peaceful, with only one exception…

“GET THOSE DAMN SQUIRRELS OFF THE BIRD FEEDER!”

That’s right. I couldn’t get through even one visit at my grandparent’s house without hearing that phrase recited by either my grandmother or grandfather. Squirrels just weren’t very welcomed visitors at their household, and their sheer presence angered them to the point that a BB gun was often threatened to be aimed out the porch window. But as my grandparents ferociously complained about the furry nuisances, young little me couldn’t help but to think that the squirrels were absolutely adorable. Even as a seven year old I was an advocate for pro-life… er, squirrel life, that is.

Until next time my friends!


A Lesson in Squirrels
Hi again!

So, before I get too deep into my squirrel blog, I have a confession to make… although I absolutely adore squirrels in every way possible, I honestly don’t know all that much about them. By “don’t know all that much about them,” I mean that I am unfamiliar with their genetic background and the various species of squirrels. So, this post will not only be a learning experience for you, but for me too! I would like to tell you all a little bit about what I found while conducting some squirrel research.

Well, I guess I’ll start with the basics, so in case you didn’t know, squirrels are rodents. More specifically, they are part of the Sciuridae family, along with chipmunks, marmots, and prairie dogs. There are actually 200 species of squirrels all around the world (except for Australia, where no squirrels dwell. That’s extremely unfortunate, Australia). But only 5 species of squirrels live right here in the lovely United States of America. What are those species you may ask? Well calm down, I’m about to tell you.

Up first, the dashing grey squirrel! These are the little guys you’ll often see scampering around University Park. Grey squirrels originally only inhabited the eastern United States, thus being known as the eastern grey squirrel. However, these sly fluffy fiends have become an invasive species in both the western United States (forcing the creation of the western grey squirrel) and Europe. Another fun fact about grey squirrels is that although the color ‘grey’ is in their names, they also can come in fun shades of brown, black, and red!

Next, make some noise for the red squirrel! Red squirrels live in the northern United States and prefer colder climates. They are indeed tree squirrels like the grey squirrel, but they prefer pine forests and are much smaller than their grey brothers. In fact, they are only about half the size of a grey squirrel. Red squirrels do have red hair year-round, however it becomes much more vibrant in the summer months. In addition, red squirrels grow tufts of hair on their ears for the winter season. Isn’t that neat?

Now, let’s talk a bit about the fox squirrel. I personally have never even heard of a fox squirrel, but that is probably because they live in all regions of the United States except the east coast. Fox squirrels are the largest specie of squirrel and can grow to be between 17 and 27 inches. Fox squirrels will either be dark brown/black or beige/tan in color.

Coming up now is the ground squirrel! These things are adorable. They live in the southwestern United States and are the tiniest specie of squirrel and often dig holes in prairies to create their homes. However, some types of ground squirrels also inhabit mountainous regions. Fun fact, they are also able to growl!

Last, but certainly not least, is the mysterious flying squirrel. There are two types of flying squirrels in the United States, the southern flying squirrel and the northern flying squirrel. Of the two, the northern flying squirrel is larger. Evidently flying squirrels outnumber grey squirrels in the United States. But, they are nocturnal which makes them very difficult for us humans to observe.

Well, there’s your squirrel lesson for today! Please, use this information wisely.


Can I Have One?
Believe it or not, writing a 500 word blog just about squirrels every week is starting to become challenging. You see, I haven’t really had any notable squirrel encounters, and although I do admire them from a far everyday here on campus, I truly have no desire to be that super creepy girl who chases after their fluffy tails once they cross my path or who stops dead in my tracks to watch them devour a nut. And, despite my adoration for them, I think my reasoning is legitimate. Following your heart is one thing, but adhering to social norms takes precedence at times.

So I’m sure some of you are wondering (just kidding, you probably weren’t wondering this) why I don’t just get a squirrel as a pet. If I had a pet squirrel I would be able to admire it all the time in the comfort of my own home, away from the judging eyes of society. Well, sorry to shoot down your original idea but it isn’t original whatsoever. Trust me, I have looked into getting a pet squirrel quite thoroughly, at let me tell you, it is quite the task. Although I still consider getting one at some point in the future, once I am an adult with my own home and responsibilities, until then I will justify not getting one through the publication of this week’s blog. That’s right, I am going to give you all of glimpse of what one must do to have a pet squirrel.

For starters, squirrels are wild animals. Although they may seen docile while being offered a handful of nuts in the park, having them in your home is a completely different story. Squirrels are accustomed to the outdoors and wide open spaces, not metal cages in a household.

Squirrels also have very sharp claws and teeth. Their tiny claws are more than capable of drawing blood, and their teeth are not only sharp, but also grow continuously, necessitating frequent chewing in order to keep them at a reasonable length. This brings us to another major issue with pet squirrels– they are extremely destructive. Squirrels can and will chew on anything. Cables, furniture, shoes, you name it, they’ll try to chew it. With this being said, they must be under supervision at all times, even if you are only heading to the grocery store for a few hours or area going out for the evening.

In addition, squirrels have extremely specific diets. They need massive amounts of calcium to stay healthy (nutritionists generally suggest deer antlers for all your squirrel dietary needs) accompanied by an assortment of insects and various outdoor nuts and seeds. Not only is their diet expensive, but is also very difficult to recreate in such a controlled environment, often resulting in domesticated squirrel deaths.

So, as you can see, owning a pet squirrel is not all fun and games. Yes, they certainly do possess some good qualities as pets. They are extremely affectionate and are little bundles of energy. But, overall, just as I explained before, squirrels are wild animals. As much as I know all of you were considering trapping a University Park squirrel, keeping it in your dorm and claiming it as your own, you may want to think twice.


Local Celebrities
Hello again!

As many of you are aware, Penn State’s University Park Campus has an extremely high squirrel population. That’s just how things are around here. But have you ever caught a glimpse of an… extra special squirrel here on campus? (I know what you’re thinking, “all squirrels are special!” Well, no. This is a super extra special squirrel) That’s right folks, I am referring to Penn State’s favorite rodent, Sneezy the Squirrel! (I once again know what you’re thinking, what the heck is Sneezy the Squirrel?) Don’t worry, you’re not alone there. Even being the avid squirrel lover that I am, I had not heard of Sneezy until extremely recently. Sneezy the Squirrel is a middle-aged grey squirrel right here on campus who has become quite the sensation. She even has her own Facebook page! But what makes Sneezy so special? What makes her more exciting than all of the other squirrels? Well, let’s just say she’s got some serious style… and a human friend who is significantly more squirrel-crazy than I am.

Sneezy’s fame can be singly attributed to a girl named Mary Krupa, who graduated from Penn State this past year. According to an article from Onward State, Sneezy is identifiable to Mary due to a red tuft of hair on her tail, and Mary is identifiable to Sneezy because she always feeds her peanuts. Good trade off, right? But the fun doesn’t stop there. Not only does Mary feed Sneezy, but she also dresses her up! Isn’t that crazy? Whenever I get even relatively close to a squirrel is spazzes out and darts away, yet when Ms. Krupa (also known as the squirrel whisperer here on campus) approaches the fluffy things, they engage her affectionately. I offer them food, just like she does! She must be lacing those peanuts with something… anyways, Mary has hand-crafted a wide assortment of hats, blouses, and other props for her favorite squirrel to pose with. I’ll be sure to include some of my favorite shots for your personal enjoyment.

As I mentioned earlier, Sneezy herself does indeed have a Facebook page that I of course encourage you all to like! But, because I know that realistically none of you will (I don’t blame you, it’s not personal, really,) I will relay Sneezy’s page information here instead. Some of Sneezy’s noteworthy accomplishments include “Fluffiest Tail,” “Friendliest Squirrel in State College,” and “Expert Nut-Collector.” Impressive, isn’t it? But wait, there’s more! Sneezy’s favorite activities include eating, hiding nuts, chasing away other squirrels, grooming herself, wearing hats, and making other people happy. Those are some of my favorite hobbies too, Sneezy.

So there you have it! A little insight into Penn State’s most stylish and well-known squirrel. If you yourself are considering finding a special squirrel of your own here on campus, I have a few tips. 1. Make a Facebook/twitter account for it. 2. Give it a cool name. 3. Create articles of clothing for it. Not hats though, that’s overdone, if you know what I mean. 4. Keep an infinite stash of unsalted nuts for your new BFF.

You don’t necessarily have to do those things in that order, obviously.


Squirrel City
As I may or may not have mentioned before, it is becoming extremely difficult to write a blog about squirrels each and every week. Yes, squirrels are exciting and all, however… I don’t even have any more excuses. I guess I will just start writing now.

For this week’s blog, the topic will actually be a city in Washington! Why you may ask? Well, Longview Washington happens to be the most squirrel-oriented location in the country! Longview is located in Western Washington and has a population of nearly 37,000 (human population, that is. Their squirrel population is unfortunately N/A.) Longview’s squirrel obsession started way back in the 1960’s with the construction of a bridge—a squirrel bridge. A man named Amos Peter, who was a local businessman in the town, was sick of seeing innocent squirrels lose their lives everyday while attempting to cross the busy street outside of his office window. To fix the problem, he contacted two local engineers and installed a squirrel-sized bridge which was attached to two treetops that lined the road. The original squirrel bridge is named Nutty Narrows, and since then two more squirrel sized bridges have been installed around the city. As if the existence of the bridges themselves wasn’t fun enough, the town also installs miniature Christmas trees in the middle of each bridge around the holiday season!

Although squirrel bridges are certainly quite prominent in advancing the overall squirrel ideology of the city, the bridges actually aren’t the main attraction in Longview. In addition to the several bridges, Longview Washington also holds an annual Squirrel Fest! I know, it may sound a bit crazy, and weird, but this is no backyard barbecue kind of festival. If you don’t believe me, check out their website!

http://lvsquirrelfest.com/

Pretty impressive, isn’t it? The event also has its own Facebook page which boasts nearly 4,000 likes. The event was first established in August of 2011 by a local group called the Sandbaggers, which is the main pro-squirrel club around town (they are also responsible for the instillation of the two most recent squirrel bridges.) Obviously Squirrel Fest is rather squirrel oriented, but aside from a giant squirrel mascot and a lot of flavored nut food stands, Squirrel Fest is really like any other local celebration. It features music performances, beer and wine tasting, games and competitions for children, and a squirrel themed parade! Sign me up! Just kidding—Squirrel Fest has come and gone—in 2015, that is. Squirrel Fest occurred on August 15th of this year… if only I had started writing this blog earlier. Alas, I’ll be sure to make it to Longview someday for their squirrel themed celebration. But this doesn’t mean that you can’t show your support for squirrels right here on campus! It may not be quite as entertaining as a Festival, but Penn State does have its very own Penn State Squirrels Club! They feed squirrels on the Old Main lawn every Saturday, unless it’s raining. Be sure to bring your own unsalted nuts and apple slices! Woo hoo! Squirrels!


This Is a ‘Nutty’ Post.
Squirrels have become a pretty hot topic in today’s society if you haven’t noticed… you may not have, but I certainly have so just take my word for it. It seems as if everyone is just hopping on the “squirrel band wagon” so to speak. To just remind you all one more time, I am NOT one of these people. I am no rookie to being a squirrel enthusiast my friends. I have 22 squirrel related objects in my room. This number may seem excessive, but I am a very subtle squirrel enthusiast. For example, I have squirrel earrings, a squirrel phone case, and three pairs of squirrel socks. It’s the little things. Anyways, I thought long and hard about what I should write this week because I am currently sitting in a car with no internet access and needed a topic that involved no research. So… this has brought us to the movies… a squirrel movie.

That little introduction about squirrels protruding into today’s society wasn’t just to increase my word count (well, not entirely at least.) Rather, I was trying to prove that squirrels are becoming a more and more popular animal, and this was proven through the release of the Nut Job in January of 2014. Just to clarify here, when I saw trailers for an all-squirrel movie airing on television, I physically could not contain myself. Obviously I enjoyed the movie because it involved squirrels, but not everyone felt this way… it earned a 5.8 through IMBd and when I went to see the movie itself, my boyfriend and I were literally the only two people in the entire theater.  But don’t let those things affect your feelings for the film!

The film was actually based off of a book called “Surly the Squirrel” by Peter Lepeniotis. I personally have not read the book because I hate reading and therefore cannot say how closely the movie coincides with the book. However, I can give a pretty mean recollection of the film (I watched it 3 times.)

You see, there is a massive clan of small critters that rely on a food supply inside of a tree in State Park in New York. Two of those critters include a male squirrel named Surly and a female squirrel named Andie. One day the tree catches on fire and all of the food inside of it is destroyed so Surly and Andie go out into the city looking for food for the clan. The two of them find a nut shop run by mafia members that are planning to rob a bank and replace the money inside of the bank with bags of peanuts. But then the police get involved and a high-speed chase occurs over a river on an unnecessarily long bridge. The truck being driven by the mafia, however, is filled with nuts instead of money. Then the truck falls into the river and all of the nuts float downstream to the park where the clan of outdoor critters resides. The animals are then left with an endless supply of nuts! Yay!

It’s non-fiction.

Just kidding.

It was actually a pretty bad movie.

But the squirrels were cute.

Don’t ask me why the squirrel is purple because I don’t know.


Siblings of the Squirrel

I completely understand that everyone feels differently about rodents—as in, obviously everyone loves them, but not necessarily the same one. We’re like snowflakes—each one is unique. I thought that it would be fun to embrace this individuality in my blog post this week! Also, I figured that you all may be a little sick (and creeped out) by reading about squirrels each and every week.

Now I want to make this very clear—I am in no way placing any of the following rodents above the squirrel. Don’t get me wrong, they’re nice and all, but none of them are the original slim shady.

Ok! Up first, I am going to go for the obvious target—the chipmunk.

Basically, chipmunks are wanna-be squirrels. It’s pitiful really, but I guess they’re alright.

Chipmunks live mainly in North America, but you can also find the Siberian chipmunk throughout Asia, Russia, and Japan. Chipmunks live for about 2-3 years in the wild (this alone proves their inferiority to the squirrel) and they like to eat seeds, nuts, berries, mushrooms, and bulbs. Some fun facts about the chipmunk include that they can gather up to 165 acorns in a single day and that a group of them is referred to as a “scurry.” (Also, no, I do not know these things off of the top of my head. That would be weird. Here is the link to the website I referenced: http://www.havahart.com/chipmunk-facts)

The next rodent I’d like to talk about is one that I had never heard of before doing some research, so I thought it would be fun to share! This type of rodent is classified as the ‘mara.’ The mara is a type of rodent that resides in South America. This specific animal is part of the caviidae family and is closely related to the common guinea pig! Maras are the fourth largest rodent in the world, reaching up to 24 pounds as adults. Generally, maras are brown in color with white dots and stripes. They can also leap up to 6 feet! (Once again, here is the link so you know that I’m not making all of this crazy information up: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mara_(mammal) )

In my opinion, I have saved the best rodent for last. The capybara is my second favorite rodent by far. Capybaras are a very little-known animal that also reside in South America. Capybaras are the largest rodent on the planet (weighing between 77 and 146 pounds) and are also part of the caviidae family, once again being very closely related to guinea pigs and maras. Capybaras are very social and can travel into groups of up to 100 members. The animals enjoy eating aquatic plants and fruit tree bark and are a very plentiful species throughout South America. In fact, so plentiful that they are often hunted for their fur and meat. Capybaras also make great pets! As mentioned before, they are very social and friendly around humans. Who needs a lap-dog when you can have a lap-capybara? Ugh, why are social standards so restricting.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capybara

I hope you enjoyed learning about all of these super fun rodents!


Amber Alert
Just like all other beings, squirrels must be nurtured and loved by their mothers in order to ensure a happy and healthy lifestyle. Baby squirrels generally stay with their mother for around 6 to 10 weeks until they are mature enough to go out into the real world. However, as we all know, the world is a scary place and sometimes… a squirrel can get left behind along the way. Squirrel orphanage is a very real problem in today’s world and afflicts hundreds of helpless squirrels each and every day (this is not a legitimate fact. I included this simply for effect.) As sad as this is, there is of course a way that you can help!

Squirrels are born pink in color and without hair. It also takes a baby squirrel several weeks (3-5) to first open their eyes. Female squirrels generally have 3-5 babies in their litter, but orphanage commonly occurs when a baby squirrel falls out of the nest or is neglected by the mother and becomes cold in temperature. According to www.squirrel-rehab.org, once a baby squirrel becomes cold, a mother will refuse to continue the nurturing process. With this being said, you can tell if a squirrel is orphaned if it is hairless, pink, and without a mother or other squirrels surrounding it.

As mentioned before, a squirrel is neglected if its body is cold, so upon first finding an orphaned squirrel, you should hold it close to your body to distribute warmth. Once the squirrel increases in temperature, you are able to place it back near the tree or other area where you found it in hopes that the mother squirrel will return to claim it. However, if the mother squirrel does not come to reclaim its baby, you should take further action. Put on gloves and carefully place the squirrel in a small cardboard box next to a warm water bottle or towel and try to wait another hour or so. The baby squirrel will most likely cry for its mother, but if the mother does not return once an hour or so has passed, you become the new momma squirrel.

The next step you need to take is making sure that the squirrel is hydrated. Many people assume that the first nourishment you should provide a baby squirrel with is milk BUT THIS IS NOT TRUE DON’T DO THAT UNLESS YOU WANT TO BE A SQUIRREL MURDERER YOU PHYSCO. Instead, make sure the squirrel drinks a reasonable amount of water. In addition to water, it is also important that you provide the baby squirrel with formula. Basically, you give the squirrel baby formula. Honestly, it’s way too involved for me to get into so if you are genuinely interested in how to rehabilitate an orphaned squirrel, check out this website.

http://www.squirreltales.org/

Last but not least, make sure you treat the baby’s wounds! Cat bites are especially lethal to squirrels (ugh, stupid cats, they’re the worst) and if the squirrel is bit by a cat, be sure to take it to a veterinarian’s office right away.

You will probably never run into an orphaned squirrel.

But, if you do…

DON’T GIVE IT MILK OR LET A CAT BITE IT.


A New Blue Species
This week’s post is one of the utmost importance. A new species of squirrel has been discovered this past week. It has coined the name “Blue Nuts.”

The squirrel was spotted in central Texas (where else) this past Wednesday in a local park. Citizens of the town were amazed to see such a strange creature in the area and the squirrel became an internet sensation.

We were able to get a few words from a bystander who was at the park when the squirrel sighting occurred. Rod Dent, age 24 and local citizen of the town in Texas where the squirrel was sighted (sorry, the name of the town could not be disclosed for liability reasons) said:

“I’ve never seen any animal like this before in my life. At first I thought it was some kind of joke. Like, a sick cruel joke. You know how people are these days, dying their poodles pink and squirrels blue. But it just looked too real to me to be fake.”

Thanks for the insightful words Rod.

Although some zoologists are disputing the squirrel’s existence, many experts believe that the squirrel is one of a rare species thought to have gone extinct hundreds of years ago. The squirrel species they are referring to, the Rodentia Gigantica, was a prominent creature during the first ice age. Some minor discrepancies seem to exist between the two species however. For example, the ancient species averaged a weight of 103 kilograms and possessed large fangs for demolishing its prey. These qualities seem to mirror those of the Blue Nut fairly well, but not all experts are convinced. Dr. NuteElla, the world’s leading squirrel analyst provided us with his opinion on the new species:

“I am not saying that this squirrel is fake and I am not saying that this squirrel is real. What I am saying is that this squirrel is indeed blue and that, to me at least, is a bit concerning. I mean, let me tell you, I’ve seen a lot of squirrels in my day. I’ve seen brown ones, white ones, black ones, and red ones, but blue? What kind of crazy fashion statement is that?”

The squirrel has created so much commotion that squirrel enthusiasts are coming from all corners of the country to get a glimpse of the new species. However, the rodents appears to be camera shy. A tourist from Scranton, PA expressed her concern while meandering the park with a camera and bag of unsalted nuts:

“I think the poor thing is just camera shy. It just wants to be itself, you know? If a human dyes their hair pink they probably wouldn’t appreciate you taking pictures of them. But, I have to admit, this is a once in a life time opportunity *shoves handful of unsalted nuts in mouth.*

Since the initial sighting on the 28th, the squirrel has been spotted several more times throughout the town but only by locals going through their daily routines. Based on observations, the squirrel has been established as non-aggressive and fun-loving.


Baby, It’s Cold Outside
As the air turns cold and the rain becomes snow, our favorite little furry friends are packing up, tails and everything.

Squirrels don’t like that Pennsylvania cold any more than we do, and it takes a lot for their little fragile bodies to not break during the chilly months of December and January. However, contrary to popular belief, squirrels actually do not hibernate, they just sleep a lot! At least, gray squirrels do. Tree squirrels, unlike ground squirrels, do not hibernate. When the temperature starts becoming cold, tree squirrels find a nice little burrowed out area (preferably a tree) and cuddle up into a neat little ball like the one pictured here:

So, you may be asking, why don’t gray squirrels hibernate?

Well, I don’t have a scientific answer for you because I am a supply chain major. HOWEVER, gray squirrels have a lot of pent up energy as compared to other squirrel species, and even more importantly, need to eat food periodically throughout the winter to keep from starving.

I, personally, have been seeing an overwhelming number of squirrels around campus lately, and I hope you have too, but they are carrying out some much more serious work that simply looking adorable and scampering along— they are prepping their food supply! A given gray squirrel will bury as much as 3 years’ worth of food in the ground each and every year; talk about being prepared! On nicer days throughout the season, gray squirrels will sneak outside into the cold and recover some of their food supply to keep nurtured and maintain their fluffy, bulky figures.

Silly squirrel, you can’t hide nuts there.

However, if it is taking a while for the weather to warm up and our furry friends are hungry, they will head out to recover their food in the early morning or late afternoon. At these times of the day, the sun is rising and them coming to a set, meaning maximum warmth for the squirrels. Some squirrels will even go as far as to linger around outside during these hours of the day, despite how cold the temperature may still seem to us. If squirrels deem it comfortable, some will lay out and sun themselves during the previously mentioned hours of the day—legs sprawled out and all. I guess I can’t blame them though. After being cooped up in a dark, damp, tiny tree all day, I would want to feel the warmth of the sun too!

Squirrels also manage a livable body temperature throughout the winter by bulking up throughout the course of fall and… shivering! So cute. If the squirrels on campus have seemed larger than usual lately, it’s because they are. Squirrels are hardly worried about maintain their slim figures around this time of the year. And, as I mentioned before, shivering also helps the squirrels heat up! Shivering is not only a sign that you are cold, it also gets your blood flowing! Squirrels utilize this action every winter. If you see a squirrel shivering this winter, don’t be alarmed! They are not in danger, they are simply trying to keep warm.

Well, until things heat back up again, goodbye my furry friends.


Again
I am writing about squirrels again.

I don’t think I need two paragraphs to justify this?

It sounds weird but you’ll love it.

I love squirrels.

And you will too.


Passion Blog Decision

I am writing about squirrels…


And So It Begins
I understand that this comes across as a strange blog topic for many of you. I read several of your passion blog plans last week, and they all came across as very… legitimate topics. Not that squirrels aren’t legitimate—they absolutely are. It might just take a bit more convincing for some of you.

You see, I just really like squirrels. But, I am not Penn State’s “Squirrel Girl.” It’s not some creepy obsession or irrational love, I just like them. And, quite frankly, it is pretty easy to write about them. I didn’t want my passion blog topic to be something too heavy last semester or this semester. I wanted my blogs to be fun and easy to read and even more fun to write, and the topic of squirrels fits the bill perfectly.

Because none of you had the chance to read my blogs last semester, I feel as if I should start at the beginning. Squirrels are my favorite animal, and have been since I was a little kid. I can still recall watching them scamper through my grandparents’ yard when I was six or seven years old, loving how silly they looked when they moved and how their tails looked like brown marshmallows. I remember having to convince my grandfather not to shoot them with the BB gun when they found their way into the bird feeder, and how my grandmother used to (and still does) call them big rats with tails.

It just constantly seemed as if it was squirrels versus the rest of the world, and let’s be real here, squirrels weigh less than a pound; there’s no way they could take on the whole world. I’ve always enjoyed rooting for the underdog, and in a planet filled with dangerous powerlines, hawks, the elderly armed with BB guns, and vicious domesticated animals, squirrels are the underdogs.

Now, last semester, I focused mostly on general squirrel facts and more light-hearted topics. I touched upon things like squirrel hibernation, different squirrel variations, squirrel related movies, blue squirrels, and squirrel domestication. You know, just the basics. However, this semester, as per request of family and friends, things will be getting much more serious. This semester, I will be capturing the dark side of squirrels—when squirrels strike back, if you will. This semester, the squirrels will no longer be the underdogs– they’ll be your worst nightmare.

My weekly blog posts will discuss topics such as squirrel related injuries, the impact squirrels have on our society, and squirrels in the news.

None of you people know me yet, but by the end of this semester’s blog posts, I hope you will. I swear I’m not crazy, I’m just a very… light-hearted writer, who likes rodents. I can assure you’ll never be bored reading my posts, and that very few of them will include any legitimate facts or date, just like this post.

And that’s a promise.

Get ready section 29. The squirrels are about to be unleashed.


CAUTION: Beware of Squirrel
Squirrels are pretty innocent animals. They happily scamper along, collecting nuts for the winter, and overall, are pretty non-aggressive animals (I’ve been trying to make this argument with housing for weeks but they still won’t let me keep a squirrel in the dorm. They shouldn’t say that all non-aggressive pets are allowed if they don’t uphold that rule under all circumstances).

(Also I am kidding. I haven’t actually been arguing with my RA about this matter… but I have mentioned it, once or twice… maybe three times).

But all of this is beside the point I am trying to make here. As sweet and docile as squirrels may seem to all of us onlookers, just like any other species out there, squirrels do go little “nuts” sometimes, if you know what I mean.

Let’s start with perhaps the most shocking of claims about squirrels in general—they’re not always herbivores. When squirrels are in desperate need of food, or are required to protect their babies from predators, they will eat meat. A prime example of this would be  squirrels warding off snakes, which doubles as both a protectionary and sustainability method for the furry creatures. Although the squirrels tend to be the underdogs in these gruesome battles, they do occasionally come out on top. Some of these duels have even been captured on camera and have taken the internet by storm.

But snakes aren’t the only organisms that squirrels partake in brawls with; squirrels VS. humans is a match-up just as common. Although squirrels do tend to keep their distance, even in heavily populated areas, instances do still occur when the furry creatures get just a bit too close. You see, it’s a lot easier to get close to a squirrel than you make think. In fact, just this weekend, I made my first attempt at approaching a squirrel. All I had to do was make a squirrel call (I know what you’re all thinking, but not so fast. It’s super easy to make a squirrel call—you just clench your teeth while your mouth is open and suck in on your saliva. You’ve all probably made this noise before without even knowing that it attracts squirrels) and a squirrel stopped what it was doing and scurried right up to me! It got up on its hind legs, placed its two front paws on its tummy, and looked at me. It was absolutely adorable. But, as adorable as it was, it isn’t a good thing for the squirrel community overall. Squirrels begin exhibiting aggressive behavior towards humans once they become too comfortable around them. Squirrel calling is a mild contributing factor, but once humans start feeding squirrels and petting them—that’s when a problem is created, just like the one that transpired in Novato, CA several months ago. A squirrel that was very comfortable around humans found its way into an elementary school and bit both a student and a teacher.

Aggressive Squirrel Attacks Kindergarten Class In Novato

This is probably why my RA won’t let me have a squirrel.

But I doubt that she knows about how aggressive squirrels can be.

Not to insinuate that I know more than her about squirrels, but,

I know more than her about squirrels.

There, I said it.


Accidents Happen
Although I would like to think that squirrels are capable of only good things, all organisms tend to have their flaws. A major flaw of squirrels exists in their incapability to make good decisions, particularly when it comes to crossing roads. Not to be blunt, but I must admit that squirrels do cause an astonishing number of auto accidents and have been the source of death for many easily-startled drivers.

Unfortunately, there are no statistics out there to show us just how many auto accidents squirrels have caused over the years, so to capture the issue accurately, I have found one specific instance of a squirrel related car crash that I believe will accurately reflect the issue at hand today.

The story begins in southern Minneapolis on June 7th of 2015, when a couple in their mid 60’s was traveling on a narrow, shady country road. According to Mary Greenfich, age 63, who was the passenger in the car when the accident occurred, her and her husband (and driver) Mort Greenfich, age 66, were on their way to the closest Walmart to purchase a new lamp shade and electrical tape. It was a cloudy day, but the roads were dry and there was no precipitation in the forecast. According to Mort, “…these were ideal driving conditions. I was confident that 14 MPH was reasonable, especially on a back road.” Although the speed limit on the road was 45 MPH, authorities report that the car was indeed moving at a speed of 14 MPH when the impact occurred.

“The car was moving so fast, so was the squirrel—it just all happened so fast,” said Mary months after the accident, holding back sobs. “I remember it like it was yesterday, the look on that squirrel’s face. It was planning this, it wanted this.”

Authorities have not been able to confirm if this was indeed an arranged crime. “The cat was about 11 inches in diameter, I’d say about 7 or 8 pounds. Weird looking cat. No wonder it stepped out in front of our car.” (Statement made by Mort Greenfich, before being told by his wife that the animal the car hit was a squirrel not a cat).

**The response of Mort Greenfich to this information has been removed for sensory reasons**

“After we hit the squirrel, it got up and walked away. It looked completely fine. No scratches, no blood. It was unbelievable” says Mary.

The vehicle of Mary and Mort Greenfich, however, was not as fortunate. The vehicle has been confirmed as totaled, and is completely unsalvageable. Unfortunately, the Greenfich’s will not be reimbursed for their auto accident. When asked for a comment, an agency representative stated: “Stop letting squirrels hit your cars.”

Accurate.

According to authorities the squirrel is still on the run and has been convicted with the felony of a “hit and run.”

If you are in southern Minneapolis, please keep an eye out for this squirrel:

This image was drawn by Mary Greenfich, which she verifies to be an accurate depiction.

For a full recaps of the story, please visit the following URL’s:

http://duckduckgrayduck.com/2015/04/20/south-minneapolis-couple-injured-in-car-accident-with-squirrel/

http://sites.psu.edu/erikaveiszlemlein/2016/02/10/accidents-happen/


Wrecked
My dog got drunk once. While my family was away for the day, a bottle of wine that we had setting on a wine wrack exploded, and Susie, our miniature poodle who is 12 pounds of pure fluff, drank it up—all of it. She spent the entire rest of the day stumbling around and running into things, and the next day, she was hungover! The poor thing vomited, multiple times. That’s the effect that a bottle of wine had on a 12 pound dog.

Now imagine something smaller drinking alcohol.

A cat?

No.

A rabbit?

No.

My blog is about squirrels so obviously we are talking about squirrels here.

That’s right folks, just several short months ago a squirrel was found completely wasted in a bar in England. However, as I’m sure you could imagine, bars don’t exactly serve their kind in England, or anywhere really for that matter. The English squirrel was a very unwanted customer, who left the bar with hundreds of dollars in damage and the embarrassment of knowing that a rodent left them with hundreds of dollars in damage.

According to the bar’s owner, Sam Boulter, the squirrel must have found its way into the bar the previous evening and managed to avoid being seen by the bar’s customers and owners. As a result, the squirrel had the ability to run wild the entire night… and it did, according to evidence. Broken glasses, shattered wine bottles, a running beer tap, and a very slow moving squirrel were all found at the scene of the crime on an early July morning of last year.

If my 12 pound dog became drunk after drinking a bottle of wine, imagine how drunk a 1 pound squirrel was after drinking straight from a tap.

Anyways, when owners arrived in the morning, they still had a very tough time capturing the little fur ball, despite its enamored state. Eventually, employees managed to capture the critter in a recycling container and release it out the window, and watched as it clumsily stumbled into the woods.

After the incident was all said and done, the squirrel’s damage amounted to nearly $450. According to employees, the estimated damages were so high because the rodent didn’t bother touching the nuts that the bar had on hand, or any of the bar’s food for that matter—it just went straight for the alcohol.

That’s a pretty edgy squirrel if you ask me. But,

I don’t think he’ll be invited back anytime soon.

Also, yes, as unlikely and unreal as this story may sound, and unlike last week’s blog post, this did actually happen. As I stated, the crime occurred in July of 2015 at the Honeybourne Railway Club in Evesham (ham only served in the evening), England.

The story was recounted by the New York Daily News here:

http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/squirrel-breaks-english-bar-samples-alcohol-article-1.2297653

But I think I told it better.


Coming 4 U
Now, as I mentioned at the onset of this semester, I am writing about the dark side of squirrels—the aspects of squirrels that are not necessarily “ideal” so to speak. And, that’s exactly what I have been doing, and am continuing to do… I think. So,

Ready or not, here they come.

Well, technically, I guess they’re already here. Or, there I should say, considering our current location.

Sorry, this all probably sounds really confusing.

What I’m trying to say here is,

Squirrels are an invasive species.

There I said it.

Now before you get your furry tails in a twist, let me explain. The squirrels that we see scampering around campus each and every day (the eastern grey squirrel) is not an invasive species… not HERE at least. But, in other portions of the world, that unfortunately is not the case.

So, let’s begin with where grey squirrels are indeed native. Obviously, they are native here, in Pennsylvania, along with all other states on the rights side of the country. Basically, if you drew a vertical line right down the middle of the country and selected all states to the right of that line, that is where grey squirrels are native. Grey squirrels are also natively found in portions of England, Ireland, Northern Italy, South Africa, and Western Canada.

So, where are these fluffy animals creating problems as invasive species?

Residents of both the state of California and Great Britain would be happy to tell you.

Not only are the fur balls destructive towards the tree populations in these areas (they like to chew on tree bark—can’t blame them,) they are also having a quite literal deadly impact on another animal species in these areas… the red squirrel. That’s right, grey squirrels are actually killing off their red-headed family members. I mean, I’ve heard some bad “ginger” jokes but this is just taking it a bit too far if you ask me.Here is a visual match-up. The grey squirrel does actually look a lot more menacing.

Now it is important to note that none of this death or destruction is intentional. You see, grey squirrels have been carrying something called “squirrel pox” which are easily spread to their red-headed brothers. The grey squirrels themselves, however, seem to actually be completely immune to the illness, making the red squirrels in California and Britain completely vulnerable. According to TIME magazine, the grey squirrel was ranked the 5th most invasive species of all time, due to its spreading of disease and the fact that grey squirrels consume 7 times as much food as their red-headed kin, creating an unsustainable environment for the squirrel population in these areas. In the TIME magazine lineup, the squirrel only ranked behind the rapidly growing Kudzu plant, the cane toad, rabbits, and Asian carp.

It is really quite sad to hear about squirrels fighting amongst each other like this. It is my hope that one day, all squirrels can live in harmony. That goes for humans too I suppose.

http://content.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,1958657_1958656_1958637,00.html


A Bit of a Bite
Now, some of you may be thinking that based on the title of this post that squirrels are evil and aggressive animals. This is not the case. I understand that these posts are about “the dark side of squirrels,” but I swear, squirrels really aren’t evil… just… just read the blog.

Getting bit by a squirrel really isn’t common, at all, but it does happen. Just as people get electrocuted by their toasters and fall into toilets , people also get bit by squirrels every so often. In fact, it is so rare to be bit by a squirrel that one squirrel bite occurs for every 100 dog bites and for every 10 human bites (I personally find that to be a creepy statistic but that’s what the source indicates so I figured I would include it.)  Realistically, squirrel bites only occur when you trap the creatures in a corner and harass them, or if you feed them and hold the food in your fingers rather than in your palm. But, if you do get bit by a squirrel, there are some steps you should follow in order to assure that the accident is handled in a safe and proper manner.

The first thing you should know when dealing with squirrel bites is that it is very uncommon for squirrels to carry rabies. Generally, animals that tend to carry rabies (raccoon, possums, etc,) are enemies of the squirrel, meaning that squirrels avoid these animals at all costs and very rarely does the disease spread to them. With this being said, it generally is not necessary to contact animal control unless you are beginning to clearly display signs of rabies.

Initially after being bit, it is a good idea to quickly wash the wound with luke-warm water and disinfect it with alcohol. After doing this, if you are still feeling uneasy about the accident, it may also be a good idea to take a trip to the hospital… which is apparently becoming more and more common for victims of squirrel bites. I say this because as of October of 2015, there is now a unique medical code for reporting a squirrel bite. You see, when you go to the hospital, depending on the illness or injury you have, there is a specific code to record it in medical records for reimbursement purposes. For example, when a patient shows up to a doctor’s office with the flu, the medical code is ICD-9-CM 487.1. For a squirrel bite, the code is W53.21XA. Isn’t that neat? I personally find that to be pretty entertaining.

So, I think that’s about all you really need to know about squirrel bites folks. Don’t go around harassing squirrels and you should be able to avoid this situation entirely. So… just don’t harass them (AKA try to catch them. I know it’s tempting. Just don’t do it. Trust me, I would know.)

I’m kidding I haven’t tried to catch one more than once.


Catch Me If You Can
If any of you have ever been out squirrel watching, or just have noticed squirrels while walking to class or around campus, you have probably at one point or another noticed them chasing each other. You know, one squirrel running intensely after another in a grassy area, or even better, one squirrel following another in a “spiral motion” down the trunk of a tree. I personally love watching squirrels do this. It reminds me of when dogs chase each other, except it’s cuter and their tails are much more majestic. But, honestly, I never associated squirrel chases with anything other than just playfulness—I always assumed that the action was all in good fun, and that, well, realistically there probably isn’t much you do to amuse yourself as a squirrel, so running after each other is probably like, the highlight of their days. But, after stumbling across an article, I realized that chasing one another isn’t always a light-hearted act—sometimes it’s an act of aggression.

According to the article, the main reason that squirrels chase one another is due to territorial reasons. The flying squirrel and red squirrel are the both very territorial, and can often be seen chasing away fellow squirrels of their species when perpetrators are eating food from their territory. However, the little guys that we often see on campus, the grey squirrels, actually aren’t territorial at all. Rather, they chase one another in order to either establish dominance, for mating reasons, or, as my initial instincts led me to believe, just for some good old fashioned fun.

Essentially, when I say establishing dominance, they are really just trying to show the other squirrel “who’s boss.” Think of it like this—

Squirrel One: *scampers onto the Old Main Lawn, in search of nuts.”

Squirrel Two: *notices squirrel one on his territory, the Old Main Lawn* Hey, you. Yeah, I’m talking to you, fluffy. Get out of here, those are my nuts. *Chases squirrel one ferociously off of the lawn and into downtown.*

That’s probably exactly how it happens in the squirrel world.

When it comes to mating reasons, I think that’s pretty self-explanatory and I will NOT be creating dialogue of this scenario.

And finally, just like I originally though, yes, squirrels do chase one another around just for the fun of it. But, it is important to note that this behavior is almost exclusively exhibited in adolescent squirrels. Just as we outgrow the game of tag, so do squirrels.

Well, there you have it folks. So the next time you see one squirrel chasing another around here on campus, just keep in mind that it may not be all fun and games. It could be an assertion of dominance… or a desperate plea for love/babies.

Red squirrels are such drama queens.

http://www.livescience.com/32740-why-do-squirrels-chase-each-other-.html


It’s Electric
Living in a place like rural PA, visible power-lines are a pretty common thing. You know, the tall wooden polls along roads and houses, strung together by thick black wires that carry electricity. For us, these wires are essential to our everyday lives because they power the things that we can’t live without– televisions, coffee makers, microwaves, and phone chargers. But, these power-lines aren’t only important due to their source of power, but also as a source of leisure. No, not a source of leisure for humans, but rather, for small mammals! Animals such birds, rats, and SQUIRRELS love power-lines as perching spots and a means of getting around town in the quickest and most efficient way possible. But, as you could imagine, these power-line excursions aren’t necessarily the… safest. Animal electrocution on power-lines is -unfortunately a commonly-occurring activity, which is not only detrimental to the animals themselves, but also creates quite a problem for the electric companies. In fact, it has been creating such problems that a New York Times journalist decided to do his own personal research on the topic. John Mooallem published an article in August of 2013 relaying his study’s results, which are, quite frankly, pretty shocking. John first became intrigued by the topic when in April of 2013, a single squirrel (who unfortunately did not make it…RIP) created power loss for over 700 Florida residents, forcing the delay of three Florida state-wide achievement tests in 3 nearby schools. John’s studies go on to document an additional 50 power outages among 24 states caused by squirrels between Labor Day of 2013 (May 27th) and the time that the article was published in August. The most extensive of these power outages occurred in Portland, Oregon, where in the month of July alone, over 9,000 people collectively lost power due to squirrels.

Now, I know this a touchy topic to discuss, it being death and all… especially because it involves the cutest and fluffiest animals on this planet, but I feel as if I need to get into the specifics a bit.

So, power-lines are designed to take on this kind of interruption. Once the… electrocuted animal falls to the ground from the power-line, the flow of electricity continues. But, this isn’t always the case. Sometimes… you know… the squirrels… get stuck. Yes, they get stuck in the power-lines sometimes, and this is what creates the massive interruptions in the flow of energy. The electricity essentially… ugh this is so hard to say… disintegrates the squirrels completely when they get stuck, which as you could imagine, creates a bunch of problems.

Overall, it is estimated that between 7 and 20 percent of power outages are caused by squirrels, and just for an idea of cost, it is estimated that California’s economy spent over 300 million dollars just on squirrel related power outages.

I know that this was a gruesome topic, but guys, this is the dark side of squirrels so it had to be said.


Blog Writing Is Getting Difficult

I can’t believe I’ve never written about this topic before, so I figured now should indeed be the time.

So there’s really only so many things you can say about squirrels, especially the dark side of squirrels… I mean, squirrels in general just aren’t really all that dark (I mean this in a figurative sense, of course. Squirrels come in a variety of colors, including brown, grey, and black). In fact, most things about squirrels are pretty great, like the fact that they, I don’t know, WATER SKI.

Twiggy the squirrel (I should really say squirrels. The act has gone through many, many squirrels. They just keep renaming all of them Twiggy. Currently, they are on Twiggy #9) first began water skiing in 1979, when Chuck and Lou Ann Best, Deltona Florida citizens, decided nothing could be more fun than training a grey squirrel to water ski on the back of a remote controlled boat. Now it is important to note that the squirrels used in these water skiing performances are not taken from the wild against their will. You see, The Bests only train abandoned, orphaned squirrels to become the next great Twiggy.

Twiggy the squirrel is actually quite a popular act, despite how bizarre the concept may seem. Twiggy is on tour 9 out of 12 months of the year, and when not performing across the country, makes guest appearances on TV shows and movies, such as Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgendy and Brad Paisley’s recent music video, Riverbank.

For her performances, Twiggy only uses the best of the best. The squirrel has a custom made boat that she skis behind, accompanied by her American flag-themed, custom made life jacket. Currently within her acts, she sports skills such as hand gliding and jet skiing, but is still in the process of learning wakeboarding.

Twiggy is also quite a character, according to the Bests. Her favorite foods include pistachios and cooked oatmeal, and she also loves to run around and play with her other rescued squirrel friends in her free-time. She is a very tame squirrel overall, obviously due to her constant exposure and interaction with humans, but also has several dislikes. According to the family, Twiggy strongly dislikes cranes (she has been attacked by one before) and loud rock music.

Twiggy even has her own Facebook page! The page provides updates to fans about her upcoming tour dates and other squirrel related stories. You can check it out if you don’t believe me… she also evidently works for her own company, according to the page– Twigy’s Inc!

https://www.facebook.com/twiggysrehab/

I also figured that I had to provide some photos and videos… this story isn’t nearly as exciting unless you see it in action. I promise that you won’t be disappointed!

Oh my god they even have stuffed animal squirrels driving the boat I can’t handle how cute this is.

She even has a legitimate sponsor. I can only hope to be as successful as this squirrel honestly.


Black is Back
For this blog post, I decided that I would go back to the basics. When I was in elementary school, one of the first English lessons I remember having was a talk on adjectives and feelings we associate with certain colors. For example, the color white is meant to be associated with ideas of goodness and purity, while green is connected with nature and envy. But, the color I remember getting the worst wrap was the color black, due to its ties with nothingness and anger.

This interpretation of color apparently coincides pretty well when it comes to fur color.

Squirrel fur color, that is.

Up until this point, I assumed that all squirrels had the same mannerisms. That they were all very spastic, quirky, and driven by food. But, after doing some extensive research (I typed squirrel fur colors into Google) some new information came to my attention. Black squirrels, which are native to the Midwestern United States, Ontario, Quebec, and parts of the Northeastern US and Great Britain, are actually significantly more aggressive than your average grey and red squirrels.

This difference in behavior is due to the squirrels’ higher levels of testosterone. This above-average level leads to the squirrels being “faster, fitter, fiercely territorial, and more aggressive.” More often than not, this means that black squirrels often beat out grey squirrels for both food and mates, which is ironic considering black squirrels are a sub-species of the grey squirrel (talk about betrayal, am I right or am I right).

So where did these black squirrels come from, and what environmental impact are they having in areas where they exist?

Now, it is still under dispute whether these mammals were dispersed throughout the England, the US and Canada after being brought from foreign lands, or whether the black subspecies was simply a genetic mutation, resulting in the development of this squirrel sub-species around the world. As far as their impact on their surrounding environments goes, they have been creating quite a bit of trouble. First of all, some scientists believe that this “mutation” makes the mammals more immune to diseases, which could lead to an increased overall squirrel population. And, just as I mentioned in one of my earlier articles, the grey squirrel in regions of England was harshly competing against the native red-squirrel, resulting in a large decrease in the red squirrel population. Now considering that the black squirrel is even more aggressive and territorial than the grey squirrel, they are obviously creating massive issues for both red and grey squirrels. In fact, black squirrels have become such an issue in parts of England, that in Cambridgeshire, England, as of 1958, all red squirrels have been extinct—the area now only consists of black squirrels.

Visual showdown– 3 ways this time. The black squirrel is cute but looks moderately aggressive.
